Video 4 - draft script (#11)
asyncapi/training: VIDEO_4_SCRIPT.md

Both initiatives share numerous similarities:

- Contract-first philosophy
- Implementation-agnostic
- Similar syntax
- A tooling ecosystem 
- Extensible
- They protect information consumption using different security schemes. (Example: user and password, API keys, certificates, OAuth, OIDC, etc.)

## Differences between them

 As we have seen, the two initiatives are significantly similar, but they also cover significantly different fields. REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.
 
 It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for REST, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures. Each aims to serve a different domain.

## AsyncAPI and OpenAPI comparison

> As you can see, you'll find lots of similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI!

Reviewer: this sentence suggests that I should see a kind of similarities, but I see screen shot from landing pages of both initiatives, is it intended? Maybe we should use some of the images from @jessemenning in this video -> https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/openapi-vs-asyncapi-burning-questions

# Video 4: AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

Hello again! Welcome to a new video about AsyncAPI. This video will discuss what AsyncAPI and OpenAPI have in common and how they differ. 

Ready or not, here we go! 

## What is OpenAPI?

OpenAPI is a standard for describing application programming interfaces (APIs). This specification defines an open, vendor-independent description format for API services. In particular, OpenAPI can describe, develop, test, and document REST-compliant APIs.

> The current OpenAPI specification grew out of the predecessor project, Swagger. The development company SmartBear subjected the existing Swagger specification to an open license, handing over both maintenance and development of the initiative to OpenAPI. In addition to SmartBear, members of the OpenAPI initiative include industry giants such as Google, IBM, and Microsoft. The Linux Foundation also supports this project. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current OpenAPI specification grew out of the predecessor project, Swagger. The development company SmartBear subjected the existing Swagger specification to an open license, handing over both maintenance and development of the initiative to the Linux Foundation. In addition to SmartBear, members of the OpenAPI initiative include industry giants such as Google, IBM, and Microsoft.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Before exploring the similarities, I think a little definition of what AsyncAPI is should be given and possibly a link to the first video which extensively discusses that.

> 

Reviewer 3: I believe it will help to briefly discuss the style(REST, message-driven) employed by these two API types so it wouldn't seem strange when a reference is made to them later in the script.
not sure I'm technically correct to refer to them as style though.

Reviewer: I mean pizza store, where in video 2 there will be pizza store with broker showing async, then briefly in this video we can use it as intro, 

- like watch video 3 to learn what AsyncAPI is, but basically to summarize it is for describing asynchronous communication -> show pizza store
- and to understand its difference with OpenAPI you first need to know OpenAPI was designed for synchronous communication -> show pizza store what happens when you remove broker and force people to talk to each other directly, every few minutes (cook asking waiter if there is new order, every minute + waiter asking cook if order is ready every minute) - so basically complete chaos 😄 
- these are completed 2 different architectures that require different specifications and this is main difference between openapi and asyncapi, but yeah lets jump into details

---
thoughts?

## Similarities between AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

AsyncAPI's ultimate goal is to work with EDA architectures as simply as with Rest APIs. The AsyncAPI specification in the asynchronous world is analogous to OpenAPI in the synchronous world. 

> 

Reviewer 3: For a beginner audience, the mention of rest API here might stir confusion considering the fact that we have been discussing only open API and async API. I think a little clarification should work.

Both initiatives share numerous similarities:

> - Contract-first philosophy

Reviewer 3: The contract-first philosophy here should have a beginner-friendly explanation.

Reviewer: maybe `Contract-first philosophy, also known as API-first. In other words, design API first and then implement it`

> - Agnostic implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  Implementation-agnostic
```

- Similar syntax
- A tooling ecosystem 

> - Extensible by including new properties with the prefix x-

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Extensible
```

It's gonna be hard to say "prefix x-" and for people to get it. Unless we're supporting the speech with some examples.

Author: Yes, make sense. Thanks!

- They protect information consumption using different security schemes. (Example: user and password, API keys, certificates, OAuth, OIDC, etc.)

## Differences between them

>  As we have seen, the two initiatives are significantly similar, but they also cover significantly different fields. REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.

Reviewer 3: I think the term async API and open API should be maintained before referencing the style they use; rest or message-driven.

>  On the other hand, message-based APIs are different because they require solutions for the caveats and intrinsic considerations of message-based architectures. AsyncAPI's tagline says it best: "REST APIs have OpenAPI. Messaging has AsyncAPI."

Reviewer 2: I'd just get rid of this. The last paragraph of the section explains everything really well.

>  On the other hand, message-based APIs are different because they require solutions for the caveats and intrinsic considerations of message-based architectures. AsyncAPI's tagline says it best: "REST APIs have OpenAPI. Messaging has AsyncAPI."

Reviewer 3: the focus has shifted from the type of the API to its style which could be a bit confusing. It should probably go like this,  "async APIs which are considered a message-driven API is different because they require solutions for..."
or
I hope this makes sense.

 
 It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for REST, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures. Each aims to serve a different domain.

## AsyncAPI and OpenAPI comparison

As you can see, you'll find lots of similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI!

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/161353808-430cb73e-e2a3-4913-ad5e-6cccdeeaa997.png)

In event-driven architectures, you have more than one protocol, and therefore, some things are different. Let's check out the following comparison chart, inspired by [Darrel Miller's blog post](https://www.openapis.org/news/blogs/2016/10/tdc-structural-improvements-explaining-30-spec-part-2):

> ![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/161353528-23fd7a02-7917-4e1b-856d-c66b8456f373.png)

Reviewer 2: I think we should say something when showing this image. I mean, explain it right? The way it is right now we say "Let's check out the following comparison chart, inspired by Darrel Miller's blog post", then show the image, and then "Thank you for joining us..." 😄 

There's something missing in between 😅 Maybe we can just put on the screen that if you want to know more about the similarities, you can visit this link. We don't have to talk in this section at all IMHO.

Reviewer: I agree, especially that my first impression was `wait, I didn't know Darrel created the comparison picture`

tbh I would not show this comparison picture. I do not think it is needed. It is also not future-proof. With 3.0 version of the spec, it will change a lot/bit 😄 

I would inspire this video on great content from Jesse that explains well sync/async

IMHO, in place of the video where you talk about REST part of the OpenAPI responsibility, we could have an image with 2 circles, OpenAPI circle would have HTTP protocol in it, while AsuncAPI would have all the other protocols, including HTTP, but more important would be to there many listed here https://github.com/asyncapi/bindings (maybe as logos, like in Jesse's article

 ## Goodbye to the viewer
 

> Thank you for joining us in today's adventure! I hope today's content helped you clarify your doubts. Join us in the next video to learn about AsyncAPI and its environment!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you for joining us in today's adventure! I hope today's content helped you clarify your doubts. Join us in the next video to learn about AsyncAPI and its ecosystem!
```

I still find it weird we say "joining us today" 😅

# Video 4: AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

> Hello again, and welcome to a new video about AsyncAPI. In this video, we're going to talk about:
> 
> AsyncAPI and OpenAPI
> 
> •	What is OpenAPI?
> •	Similarities between AsyncAPI and OpenAPI
> •	Differences between them
> •	Example of each initiative
> 
> Here we go! 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Hello again! Welcome to a new video about AsyncAPI. This video will discuss what AsyncAPI and OpenAPI have in common and how they differ. 

Ready or not, here we go! 
```

## What is OpenAPI?

> OpenAPI is a standard for describing application programming interfaces (APIs). This specification defines an open, vendor-independent description format for API services. In particular, OpenAPI can describe, develop, test, and document REST-compliant APIs.
> 
> The current OpenAPI specification grew out of the predecessor project Swagger. The development company SmartBear subjected the existing Swagger specification to an open license, handing over both maintenance and development of the initiative to OpenAPI. In addition to SmartBear, members of the OpenAPI initiative include industry giants such as Google, IBM, or Microsoft. The Linux Foundation also supports this project. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OpenAPI is a standard for describing application programming interfaces (APIs). This specification defines an open, vendor-independent description format for API services. In particular, OpenAPI can describe, develop, test, and document REST-compliant APIs.

The current OpenAPI specification grew out of the predecessor project, Swagger. The development company SmartBear subjected the existing Swagger specification to an open license, handing over both maintenance and development of the initiative to OpenAPI. In addition to SmartBear, members of the OpenAPI initiative include industry giants such as Google, IBM, and Microsoft. The Linux Foundation also supports this project. 
```

## Similarities between AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

> Its ultimate goal is to work with EDA architectures as simply as with Rest APIs. This specification for the asynchronous world is analogous to OpenAPI in the synchronous world. Both initiatives are based on the same principles:
> 
> - Their use is intended for a contract-first philosophy.
> 
> - They are implementation agnostic.
> 
> - Both use the same syntax. 
> 
> - Like AsyncAPI, OpenAPI also offers a set of tools around it.
> 
> - They protect information consumption using different security schemes such as user and password, API keys, certificates, and of course, the most recommended ones such as OAuth or OIDC flows.
> 
> - Both specifications are extensible by including new properties with the prefix x-.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI's ultimate goal is to work with EDA architectures as simply as with Rest APIs. The AsyncAPI specification in the asynchronous world is analogous to OpenAPI in the synchronous world. 

Both initiatives share numerous similarities:

- Contract-first philosophy
- Agnostic implementation
- Similar syntax
- A tooling ecosystem 
- Extensible by including new properties with the prefix x-
- They protect information consumption using different security schemes. (Example: user and password, API keys, certificates, OAuth, OIDC, etc.)

```

## Differences between them

> As we have seen, the two initiatives are very similar but cover very different fields. REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.
> 
> However, message-based APIs are very different and need solutions covering the caveats and considerations intrinsic to message-based architectures. AsyncAPI's tagline says it best: "REST APIs have OpenAPI. Messaging has AsyncAPI."
> 
> It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for REST, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures. Each is aimed at a different domain.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 As we have seen, the two initiatives are significantly similar, but they also cover significantly different fields. REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.
 
 On the other hand, message-based APIs are different because they require solutions for the caveats and intrinsic considerations of message-based architectures. AsyncAPI's tagline says it best: "REST APIs have OpenAPI. Messaging has AsyncAPI."
 
 It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for REST, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures. Each aims to serve a different domain.
```

## Example of each initiative

> (How about creating here a practical and simple example of each initiative? I think it would make the video more complete.)

Reviewer 4: ## AsyncAPI and OpenAPI comparison 

As you can see, you'll find lots of similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI. In the world of event-driven architectures, you have more than one protocol, and therefore, some things are different. Let's check out the following comparison chart, inspired by [Darrel Miller's blog post](https://www.openapis.org/news/blogs/2016/10/tdc-structural-improvements-explaining-30-spec-part-2):

<img width="450" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-01 at 4 17 06 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/161353528-23fd7a02-7917-4e1b-856d-c66b8456f373.png">

Author: I like the idea. Like this, the differences and similarities of each initiative are very clear. Do you think we should describe verbally what appears in the image?

Reviewer 4: I can see how that could be useful! I vote yes... do you want me to help add this myself? (I am not sure I would get it 100% technically correct either, I will have to ask for another techy review.)

@Barbanio

Reviewer 4: Ok, let me add something and then tag Lukasz when I'm done because I'm not sure I will get it right either 🤣 

I will tag you again here once I add my first attempt 😄

Reviewer 4: ## AsyncAPI and OpenAPI comparison (draft 2)

As you can see, you'll find lots of similarities between OpenAPI and AsyncAPI!

<img width="300" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-01 at 4 23 25 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/161353808-430cb73e-e2a3-4913-ad5e-6cccdeeaa997.png">

In event-driven architectures, you have more than one protocol, and therefore, some things are different. Let's check out the following comparison chart, partially inspired by [Darrel Miller's blog post](https://www.openapis.org/news/blogs/2016/10/tdc-structural-improvements-explaining-30-spec-part-2):

<img width="300" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-01 at 4 17 06 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/161353528-23fd7a02-7917-4e1b-856d-c66b8456f373.png">

As we look at these diagrams, we see how AsyncAPI uses `servers` for configuring their `hosts` and `security`, while OpenAPI mentions only **hosts** and **security** handled separately. Moving on, AsyncAPI has `channels` with `messages` that include `headers` and `payload` information. OpenAPI, however, has **paths** for making **REST API** calls. Lastly, notice how both AsyncAPI and OpenAPI have **`components`**. In fact, both AsyncAPI and OpenAPI have a **`Parameters`** component in common, but the rest of their components are completely different.

___

Ok, how about something like that, @Barbanio? 🤔 💭  

We will still need someone like @derberg or @smoya to review my proposal here and confirm if it's technically acurate. 😄 👍🏻

Reviewer 4: <img width="781" alt="Screen Shot 2022-04-06 at 5 55 18 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/162098862-af7e12f4-c297-46d4-9035-b7e97c2e4dfc.png">

@derberg / @smoya / etc.. the section enclosed by the blue 🟦  is what needs technical review

> (How about creating here a practical and simple example of each initiative? I think it would make the video more complete.)

Reviewer 4: How about doing the following I put below?

We already have this content from our own Docs:
https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/getting-started/coming-from-openapi

> ## Goodbye to viewer
> 
> Thank you for joining us and being part of this adventure. I hope it has helped you to clarify your doubts. Join us to discover more about AsyncAPI and its environment!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 ## Goodbye to the viewer
 
Thank you for joining us in today's adventure! I hope today's content helped you clarify your doubts. Join us in the next video to learn about AsyncAPI and its environment!
```

# Video 4: AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

Hello again! Welcome to a new video about AsyncAPI, the open source initiative that seeks to improve the current state of Event Driven Architectures (EDA). If you wanna know more about the spec just check the previous video (3) on "What is AsyncAPI". This video will discuss what AsyncAPI and OpenAPI have in common and how they differ. 

Ready or not, here we go! 

## What is OpenAPI

> OpenAPI is a standard for describing application programming interfaces (APIs). This specification defines an open, vendor-independent description format for API services. In particular, OpenAPI can describe, develop, test, and document REST-compliant APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenAPI is a standard for describing APIs based on HTTP protocol. This specification defines an open, vendor-independent description format for API services. In particular, OpenAPI can describe, develop, test, and document REST-compliant APIs.
```

API was introduces in earlier videos, we do not need to say application programming interface again

The current OpenAPI specification grew out of the predecessor project, Swagger. The development company SmartBear subjected the existing Swagger specification to an open license, handing over both maintenance and development of the initiative to the Linux Foundation. In addition to SmartBear, members of the OpenAPI initiative include industry giants such as Google, IBM, and Microsoft.

## Similarities between AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

AsyncAPI's ultimate goal is to work with EDA architectures as simply as with Rest APIs. For those who don't know what REST APIs are, we will briefly say that interface between systems and that uses HTTP to obtain data or generate operations on that data in all possible formats.

Back to the comparison, the AsyncAPI specification in the asynchronous world is analogous to OpenAPI in the synchronous world. 

Both initiatives share numerous similarities:

- Contract-first philosophy
- Implementation-agnostic
- Similar syntax
- A tooling ecosystem 
- Extensible
- They protect information consumption using different security schemes. (Example: user and password, API keys, certificates, OAuth, OIDC, etc.)

> ## Differences between AsyncAPI and OpenAPI

Reviewer: biggest difference is 

OpenAPI is for HTTP protocol 
AsyncAPI is for multiple different protocols designed for async communication

> As we have seen, the two initiatives are significantly similar, but they also cover significantly different fields. REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.

Reviewer: > REST APIs have a specific function that requires their methods and documentation approaches. REST APIs have, among others, a great solution in the form of OpenAPI, a set of standardized documentation methods for enabling tools and interactivity.

I'm having hard time understanding above sentence and what "difference" it actually describes

> It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for REST, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures. Each aims to serve a different domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's essential to understand that while the two solutions have a lot in common, they are also wildly divergent. Both OpenAPI and AsyncAPI allow for more significant cooperation and collaboration between different documented APIs. Still, OpenAPI is a solution for HTTP, and AsyncAPI is a solution for message-based architectures where multiple different protocols are involved. Each aims to serve a different domain.
```

Making different combinations of microservices appears them as the most efficient way of creating something new. Making combinations as a puzzle. REST calls were the main method to stick those pieces together, acting as glue.

Jesse Menning makes it very clear in this fantastic [article](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog/openapi-vs-asyncapi-burning-questions) that we highly recommend.

That method worked pretty well in synchronous communication, but it has its limitations. People eventually realized that REST wasn’t always the best tool for laying the game. The search for a new kind of glue starts as a way of facilitating asynchronous communication.

The internet of things acted as a real game-changer. Since it was introduced, everything seems to be connected to the Internet. And everything Is everything, including vacuum cleaners, heaters, ovens, cars... That is amazing but not that easy. Every gadget doesn’t always have solid internet connections. Asynchronous communication rises as a better way to connect them.

Establishing asynchronous communication between microservices makes them more reliable, faster, easier to scale, and more agile to adopt.

> ![Protocols supported](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77982319/165746023-ed78afbc-598b-4401-843e-6ac851d30303.jpg)

Reviewer: aws is not a protocol, try to see if they have some logo for SNS SQS protocols
please remove JMS and add Kafka logo instead
